Name: Chetana Adhikari
ISTA_420
Lesson Plan 7

1.	What is a table expression? Can you give a technical definition of a table expression?

A table expression is a named query expression that represents a valid relational table. commontable expression (CTE) 
is a temporary named result set that is derived from a simple query and defined within the execution scope of a single SELECT, INSERT, 
UPDATE, or DELETE statement

2.	In what SQL clause are derived tables (table valued subqueries) located?

Derived tables are defined in the FROM clause of an outer query.

3.	What SQL key word defines a common table expression?

Common table expressions are defined by using a WITH statement.

4.	When using common table expressions, can a subsequent derived table use a table alias declared in a preceding table expression?

Each common table expression can refer to all previously defined common table expressions, and the outer query can refer to all common 
table expressions.

5.	Can a main query refer to a previously defined common table expression by multiple aliases?

Yes a main query can refer to a previously defined common table expression.

6. In SQL, is a view a durable object?

View’s definition is stored as permanent objects in the database, thereby making it reusable.

8.	In a view, what does WITH CHECK OPTION do? Why is this important?

WHITE CHECK OPTION prevents using the view to make modifications that the view wouldn't return.

9.	In a view, what does SCHEMABINDING do? Why is this important?

SCHEMABINDING binds the schema of referenced objects and columns to the schema of the referencing object. It is important as it helps 
prevent errors at run time from trying to query the view and referenced objects or columns that do not exist.

10.	What is a table valued function?

Table valued functions are reusable table expressions that support input parameters. 

11.	What does the APPLY operator do?

The APPLY operator allows you to invoke a table-valued function for each row returned by an outer table expression of a query
